0.G changelog (#63198)
CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA: data/changelog.txt

JSONized sidebar allows almost total control of what your sidebar looks like and what information it displays is up to you!
Skill rust has been turned into a net gain for the player as any rusted xp now turns into an xp multiplier that helps your character learn faster.  As a result it now defaults to on.
Passively boil water by putting dirty water into a fireproof container then placing the container on top of a fire.  Walk away and after an amount of time dependent on the amount of water to boil it will all be clean water!
Monster weakpoints! Many monsters now have weakpoints that the player can hit to apply various effects and extra damage to the monster.  As the player dissects more corpses of monsters they can learn weakpoint proficiencies that increase the player's odds of hitting weakpoints.
Characters now have cardio which will respond to your playstyle.  Go for a run every day and perform hard labor and your stamina will slowly go further and further.  Spend three months reading and performing low intensity crafts and your cardio will suffer.

> A half dozen new in repo mods: Innawoods for the survival, craft loop you crave. Backrooms which takes place in the neverending backrooms dimension, Massachusetts mod for people who desire geographic accuracy, Xedra Evolved a science fantasy mod with weird magic and vampirism, Tropicataclysm for your Cataclysm at a warmer latitude and Megafauna which like Dinoclysm targets an ancient epoch with creatures that outsize our modern equivalents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A half dozen new in repo mods: Innawoods for the survival from scratch you crave. Backrooms which takes place in the neverending backrooms dimension, Massachusetts mod for people who desire geographic accuracy, Xedra Evolved a science fantasy mod with weird magic and vampirism, Tropicataclysm for your Cataclysm at a warmer latitude and the Megafauna mod which targets an ancient epoch with creatures that outsize our modern equivalents, similar to Dinomod.
```

    xxx spells, xx enchantments
Crafting: xx
    x requirements, x tool qualities, x construction groups, x constructions,
    x recipe category, x recipe group
Item Traits: xxx
    x materials, x ammunition types, x ammo effects
Achievements: xxx
    x achievements, x event statistics, x event transformations, x score entries

## Features:
Safe mode improvements
Enchantments can now alter skills
Eternal Weather options
Electrical fields can produce EMP and fry unprotected electronics
Vitamins system and diseases related to the over or under consumption.  Not just for normal vitamins like Calcium or Vit C.
Integrated armors for armors that are part of you.
Multiple tilesets based on Zoom.
CBM fueling improvements
Monster death effects now use spells
Improved NPC attack logic including the ability to cast spells
Add monster bleed resistance
Recipes can be tracked as new
Deep water can now destroy electronics
A ton of prework for limbification
Autodrive version 2
Hunted scenario adds a nemesis zombie chasing the PC
Practice recipes
Player can nickname monsters
All items can have cosmetic variants now
Tons of work on zones, such as personal zones, dissasembly zones and automop zones

> Allow non-debug change of hair, facial hair, eye colour and skin colour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow non-debug change of gender, hair, facial hair, eye and skin color
```

> Books can now be copied into a variety of condensing items, ebooks, book binders etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Books can now be copied into a variety of condensing items: ebooks, book binders etc
```

PC can track their adventure in their diary
Zombies no longer revive naked
Calories tracking for QOL
Allow green night-vision overlay to be turned off

> Quality of life improvement : add capacity essential data next to the worn containers within the inventory interface, add universal formatter to easily format common units `unit_to_string`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quality of life improvement: add capacity essential data next to the worn containers within the inventory interface, add universal formatter to easily format common units `unit_to_string`
```

You can disable specific pockets on items and disable unloading specific pockets
Eternal Night & Eternal Day options
Enable grab movement of vehicles and furniture across ramps to a different z-level
Grabs can cause you to suffocate, Portal Storm Effect to use this
Allow reloading guns with mixed ammo
Allow players to uncover electric wires in the walls to connect appliances
Snippets you've read have a LORE tab you can look them over
Allow Web Diver to rappel, add infrastructure for wall crawling
Give a chance of another try if game is unable to find a valid starting location.

> Perspiration

Reviewer: Also major enough to be mentioned more prominently.

Reworks mutagen to take time and use fully customizable EOCs.
Mutations now cause genetic damage
Limiting rigid armor, testing for it and raw skin
Aiming Down Sight Causes Sight To Focus
Tons of additional mouse and menu scrolling options
Move items along when riding the elevator
You can now peek down a ledge to check if it's safe before climbing down
Metaprogression through achievements
Allow mounting any reasonable gun on turret mount
EMP blast renders all electronic items in the radius of the blast non-functional

## Content:
Half a dozen new basecamp locations
Dozens of new NPCs including several new NPC factions
Additional modular lab rooms and finales
Add ability to cause some foods to incur nausea
Archery Proficiencies and proficiency bonus infrastructure
Mines JSONified
Add book binder to copy recipes

> add eBook Reader

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add eBook Reader
```

Isolated Artisans Faction
Add new Bōjutsu Marital Art
Blacksmithing rework
New easter eggs, no I won't list them
Civilian Bugout Bags Filled With What You Expect
Hub01 expansion
Tacoma Ranch rework and Expansion
New starting missions for many professions both new and old
Aircraft Carrier and Nuclear Power Plant Globally unique locations
JSONized snippets for addictions and dreams
Catalytic Cracking for Kerosene production
And unfathomable amount of location updates
Nursing home and associated scenario, monsters and profession
Improved radio scanning
Sheet metal armor
Pride flags
Skulls
A plethora of mutable locations including farms and river caves
Meat Cocoons and Zombie Amalgations
Even more monsters, items, foods, locations, and recipes

## Interface:
Hide tiles overmap behind an option
Support separate graphical tiles for sounds heard above/below visible Z level
Jsonize and display CBM trigger costs
Show which mods items, monsters, and furniture are from
Allow changing shape of vehicle parts without reinstalling
Move refueling CBM to its own menu
Show monster count in sidebar compass
Separate zoom level for overmap
Added recipe activity level to crafting screen

> display gun loudness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display gun loudness
```

Aftershock: Add functional jet packs
Xedra Evolved: New NPCs to meet and rescue
[DinoMod] player mutations change monster faction behavior
[DinoMod] stegoceras
Magiclysm Adding new magic plants
[DinoMod] compsognathus, eoraptor, amargasaurus bio-operators
Magiclysm Quest & Lore patch to item distribution
[DinoMod] mi-go scout tower dino variant
The Backrooms mod
Vampire Virus in Xedra Evolved
Crazy Cataclysm: Adds Powerthirst and Rocket Cans
Xedra Evolved magic classes Eaters, Dreamers, Inventors and Dreamsmiths
[Magiclysm] Make Summoning Great Again!
Implementing more proper alchemy and some another stuff
Aftershock Space items and smartguns
Aftershock New CBM and class
Aftershock: New Monofilament Whip CBM
Butchering candy monsters gives candy flesh
Add standard combat test mod
Nested Crafting Categories
Add cosmetic variants for mutations

## Balance:
Mutation System Overhaul
Made windmills able to grind up dried rice, cooked acorn meal, and roasted cattail rhizome into flour
Shocker zombies cannot be harvested for bionics in vanilla
Reduce crafting proficiency penalties based on partial proficiency level
Updated brewing recipes and fermentation times to be more realistic

> add stamina cost to archery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add stamina cost to archery
```

Change Cut Cotton to Patchwork, add Patchwork to Rags

> monster HP scaling section in GAME_BALANCE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Someone mislabled their PR. This should be in Documentation.

Author: Is there a documentation section for the changelog? If not I'll just remove this one.

Reviewer: I dont think so and there should be none because this is, although it is tedious and much appreciated work, relevant to the player.

Author: OK I've added a new documentation section right before Mods section.  Please let me know if there are any other major documentation PRs that need to be included.

Take over a friendly NPC upon your death, if you've managed to recruit any NPCs to your faction you are given an option to take over one of them in the event of your character's death.
Appliances and building based powergrids, allow you to set up various tools or even usable arcade machines in your home base.
Two new Iso tilesets have been added to the game.
Simple monster aggression differentation. Some monsters now know if another monster made them angry versus instead the PC.  If they get angry at other monsters they may not get angry at the PC.
Vehicles now have solid walls even when angled which prevents monsters and fields from entering an angled vehicle.
Dozens of updates and content additions to Dinomod, Aftershock and Magiclysm.
Map memory is now unlimited, you will no longer forget places you have been before.
There has been a distinct push to make many options and possibilities clearer to the player without having to search for them, UI that makes suggestions as to why the player might want to perform an action.

> ## Statistics

Author: Start of the Statistics section that needs a python script to pull all this data.

> 3974 files changed, 5440251 insertions(+), 3904330 deletions(-)
> 10,463 commits

Reviewer 2: Between 0.F-3 and now:
```suggestion
7881 files changed, 11635744 insertions(+), 5019082 deletions(-)
13,071 commits
```
Not sure about number of new contributors. If you remember what the total was when 0.F was released, you can subtract it from the current number of contributors on the main project page

Author: Thank you! I was able to reverse engineer it from the other listed new contributor counts.

> ~454 contributors

Author: ```suggestion
~218 new contributors
```
This is what my math came up with. Other suggestions welcome.

> New game entities (core): 4510

Author: New section that needs data after resolution of files changed and new contributors counted

Items: 987
    228 misc items, 199 books, 196 articles of clothing, 161 guns and gun related items,
    151 comestibles, 99 tools, 53 ammunition types
Mapgen: 778
    424 overmap terrains, 198 palettes, 62 start locations, 41 city buildings, 25 map extras,
    20 overmap specials, 5 overmap locations, 3 region setting
Crafting: 562
    223 construction groups, 201 requirements, 60 proficiencies, 50 constructions,
    17 recipe groups, 10 recipe categories, 1 construction category
Achievements: 363
    115 achievements, 107 event statistics, 100 event transformations, 26 score entries, 15 conducts
Item Traits: 325
    171 item groups, 97 materials, 20 ammunition types, 18 ammo effects, 13 tool qualities,
    2 vitamins, 3 item actions, 1 fault
Player Traits: 263
    144 professions, 41 effect types, 28 skills, 17 mutations, 14 activity types,
    4 skill display types, 3 behaviors, 3 movement modes, 3 scent types, 2 morale types,

>     1 butchery requirement, 1 disease type, 1 mutation types, 1 trait group

Reviewer 3: 1 mutation **type**

    65 guns and gun-related items, 21 ammunition types, 7 compact bionic modules
Player traits: 749
    273 mutations, 214 trait groups, 96 professions, 64 techniques, 47 scenarios, 21 effect types,
    9 martial arts, 8 bionics, 8 start locations, 6 mutation categories, 2 proficiencies, 1 skill
Mapgen: 430
    154 item groups, 202 overmap terrains, 39 palettes, 30 overmap specials,
    5 city buildings, 2 map extras
Monsters: 406
    360 monster types, 32 harvest entries, 11 species, 3 monster attacks
NPCs and NPC interactions: xxx
    xxx talk topics, xx npc classes, xx mission definitions, xx npcs, x factions
Map traits: xxx
    xxx terrains, xx furnitures, xx terrain transformations,
    x gates, x field types, x traps, x emit definitions
Vehicles: xxx
    xxx vehicle parts, xx vehicle groups, xx vehicles
Magic: xxx
    xxx spells, xx enchantments
Crafting: xx
    x requirements, x tool qualities, x construction groups, x constructions,
    x recipe category, x recipe group
Item Traits: xxx
    x materials, x ammunition types, x ammo effects
Achievements: xxx
    x achievements, x event statistics, x event transformations, x score entries

> 

Author: End of the statistics section

NPCs getting stuck trying to path in through a closed window.
Make magiclysm auras compatible with power armor
Fix NPCs spawning without weapons
CVD can be used on new steel types
Character aggro fixes
Only fill items as much as parent containers allow
Fix Uncanny Dodge description, this error was ancient
Filename-independent widget load order (fixes #59202)
Don't auto-note generated map extra if player hasn't already seen the OMT map extra was placed on
Makes cows able to become aggressive
Only the last killed amigara drops an artifact
Improve item filter help of zone manager and surrounding items menu
Make radioactive items radiate
Carry over relative rot during item transformation and fix transformed comestible not rotting over time
Players can no longer be dragged while in a vehicle with a seatbelt; dragged players will not be run over by their own vehicles while still inside of them
Monsters retain original loot when changing type
Firstaid QOL improvements
Player can finally enjoy fire even with eyes closed
Z level transparency flag for better skylights
Componentless practice crafts no longer leave in-progress items
Fix mechs missing their guns

> Players can no longer be dragged while in a vehicle with a seatbelt; dragged players will not be run over by their own vehicles while still inside of them

Reviewer 3: Duplicate entry (7 rows higher)

> Players can no longer be dragged while in a vehicle with a seatbelt; dragged players will not be run over by their own vehicles while still inside of them

Author: ```suggestion
```

Electrical fields can now produce EMP that will destroy unprotected electronics
Perspiration now exists so that your PC can wear heavy armor during summer without overheating, instead they'll sweat heavily and experience thirst faster.

## Statistics
7881 files changed, 11635744 insertions(+), 5019082 deletions(-)
13,071 commits
~218 new contributors

New game entities (core): 4510
Items: 987
    228 misc items, 199 books, 196 articles of clothing, 161 guns and gun related items,
    151 comestibles, 99 tools, 53 ammunition types
Mapgen: 778
    424 overmap terrains, 198 palettes, 62 start locations, 41 city buildings, 25 map extras,
    20 overmap specials, 5 overmap locations, 3 region setting
Crafting: 562
    223 construction groups, 201 requirements, 60 proficiencies, 50 constructions,
    17 recipe groups, 10 recipe categories, 1 construction category
Achievements: 363
    115 achievements, 107 event statistics, 100 event transformations, 26 score entries, 15 conducts
Item Traits: 325
    171 item groups, 97 materials, 20 ammunition types, 18 ammo effects, 13 tool qualities,
    2 vitamins, 3 item actions, 1 fault

> Player Traits: 263
>     144 professions, 41 effect types, 28 skills, 17 mutations, 14 activity types,
>     4 skill display types, 3 behaviors, 3 movement modes, 3 scent types, 2 morale types,
>     1 butchery requirement, 1 disease type, 1 mutation types, 1 trait group

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Player Traits: 474
    122 professions, 91 effect types, 117 mutations, 25 activity types, 2 behaviors,
    1 movement mode, 5 morale types, 2 disease types, 46 mutation types,
    8 trait groups, 55 sub body parts
```
Zero new skills, skill display types, scent types, and butchery requirements

> NPCs and NPC interactions: 237
>     255 talk topics, 29 missions, 29 scenarios, 15 npcs, 6 npc classes, 3 factions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NPCs and NPC interactions: 1443
    1153 talk topics, 142 missions, 14 scenarios, 78 npcs, 52 npc classes, 4 factions
```

> Map Traits: 234
>     149 terrains, 12 weather types, 64 furnitures, 5 gates, 3 field types, 1 terrain transformation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Map Traits: 321
    202 terrains, 3 weather types, 95 furnitures, 1 gate, 7 field types, 13 terrain transformations
```

> Monsters: 228
>     151 monster types, 72 harvest entries, 4 species, 1 anatomy entry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Monsters: 461
    300 monster types, 158 harvest entries, 3 species
```
Zero new anatomy entries

> Vehicles: 140
>     80 vehicle parts, 41 vehicles, 12 vehicle part categories, 7 vehicle groups

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vehicles: 138
    99 vehicle parts, 31 vehicles, 8 vehicle groups
```
Zero new vehicle part categories

> Magic: 40
>     23 spells, 7 enchantments, 6 emit definitions, 4 relic definitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Magic: 117
    99 spells, 4 enchantments, 12 emit definitions, 2 relic definitions
```

> Misc: 363
>     258 json flags, 104 ascii art, 1 loot zone

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UI and Sidebar: 861
    836 sidebar widgets, 15 body graphs, 8 mood faces, 1 ascii art, 1 speed description
Misc: 377
    124 json flags, 29 weakpoint sets, 14 loot zones, 210 effect on conditions, 3 option sliders
```

> New game entities (mods): 3231

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New game entities (mods): 5396
New mods: 18
```

> Items: 773
>     179 misc items, 172 books, 161 comestibles, 85 tools, 83 articles of clothing,
>     65 guns and gun-related items, 21 ammunition types, 7 compact bionic modules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Items: 885
    220 misc items, 62 books, 222 comestibles, 114 tools, 170 articles of clothing,
    51 guns and gun-related items, 27 ammunition types, 19 compact bionic modules
```

> Player traits: 749
>     273 mutations, 214 trait groups, 96 professions, 64 techniques, 47 scenarios, 21 effect types,
>     9 martial arts, 8 bionics, 8 start locations, 6 mutation categories, 2 proficiencies, 1 skill

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Player traits: 440
    133 mutations, 33 trait groups, 76 professions, 3 techniques, 63 scenarios, 90 effect types,
    1 martial art, 20 bionics, 11 start locations, 3 mutation categories, 5 proficiencies, 2 skills
```

> Mapgen: 430
>     154 item groups, 202 overmap terrains, 39 palettes, 30 overmap specials,
>     5 city buildings, 2 map extras

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mapgen: 955
    608 item groups, 89 overmap terrains, 64 palettes, 98 overmap specials,
    8 city buildings, 88 map extras
```

> Monsters: 406
>     360 monster types, 32 harvest entries, 11 species, 3 monster attacks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Monsters: 1184
    1067 monster types, 93 harvest entries, 9 species, 15 monster attacks
```

> NPCs and NPC interactions: xxx
>     xxx talk topics, xx npc classes, xx mission definitions, xx npcs, x factions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NPCs and NPC interactions: 310
    250 talk topics, 19 npc classes, 27 mission definitions, 13 npcs, 1 faction
```

> Map traits: xxx
>     xxx terrains, xx furnitures, xx terrain transformations,
>     x gates, x field types, x traps, x emit definitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Map traits: 217
    99 terrains, 94 furnitures, 5 terrain transformations, 9 field types, 2 traps, 8 emit definitions
```
Zero new gates

> Vehicles: xxx
>     xxx vehicle parts, xx vehicle groups, xx vehicles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vehicles: 61
    33 vehicle parts, 7 vehicle groups, 21 vehicles
```

> Magic: xxx
>     xxx spells, xx enchantments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Magic: 320
    290 spells, 30 enchantments
```

> Crafting: xx
>     x requirements, x tool qualities, x construction groups, x constructions,
>     x recipe category, x recipe group

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Crafting: 74
    50 requirements, 2 tool qualities, 21 constructions, 1 recipe category
```
Zero new construction groups and recipe categories

> Item Traits: xxx
>     x materials, x ammunition types, x ammo effects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Item Traits: 35
    20 materials, 12 ammunition types, 3 ammo effects
```

> Achievements: xxx
>     x achievements, x event statistics, x event transformations, x score entries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Achievements: 59
    43 achievements, 8 event statistics, 8 event transformations
```
Zero new score entries

Characters now have cardio which will respond to your playstyle.  Go for a run every day and perform hard labor and your stamina will slowly go further and further.  Spend three months reading and performing low intensity crafts and your cardio will suffer.
A half dozen new in repo mods: Innawoods for the survival from scratch you crave. Backrooms which takes place in the neverending backrooms dimension, Massachusetts mod for people who desire geographic accuracy, Xedra Evolved a science fantasy mod with weird magic and vampirism, Tropicataclysm for your Cataclysm at a warmer latitude and the Megafauna mod which targets an ancient epoch with creatures that outsize our modern equivalents, similar to Dinomod.
Take over a friendly NPC upon your death, if you've managed to recruit any NPCs to your faction you are given an option to take over one of them in the event of your character's death.
Appliances and building based powergrids, allow you to set up various tools or even usable arcade machines in your home base.
Two new Iso tilesets have been added to the game.

> Simple monster aggression differentation. Some monsters now know if another monster made them angry versus instead the PC.  If they get angry at other monsters they may not get angry at the PC.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Simple monster aggression differentation. Some monsters now know if another monster made them angry instead of the PC.  If they get angry at other monsters they may not get angry at the PC.
```

Mapgen: 955
    608 item groups, 89 overmap terrains, 64 palettes, 98 overmap specials,
    8 city buildings, 88 map extras
Monsters: 1184
    1067 monster types, 93 harvest entries, 9 species, 15 monster attacks
NPCs and NPC interactions: 310
    250 talk topics, 19 npc classes, 27 mission definitions, 13 npcs, 1 faction
Map traits: 217
    99 terrains, 94 furnitures, 5 terrain transformations, 9 field types, 2 traps, 8 emit definitions
Vehicles: 61
    33 vehicle parts, 7 vehicle groups, 21 vehicles
Magic: 320
    290 spells, 30 enchantments
Crafting: 74
    50 requirements, 2 tool qualities, 21 constructions, 1 recipe category
Item Traits: 35
    20 materials, 12 ammunition types, 3 ammo effects
Achievements: 59
    43 achievements, 8 event statistics, 8 event transformations

## Features:
Safe mode improvements
Enchantments can now alter skills
Eternal Weather options
Electrical fields can produce EMP and fry unprotected electronics
Vitamins system and diseases related to the over or under consumption.  Not just for normal vitamins like Calcium or Vit C.
Integrated armors for armors that are part of you.

> Multiple tilesets based on Zoom.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Ability to use different tileset for different level of Zoom.
```
Maybe it's clearer like that?

> CBM fueling improvements

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
CBM fueling improvements: CBMs have actual tank accessible through the inventory menu. No more eating fuel.
```

You can disable specific pockets on items and disable unloading specific pockets
Eternal Night & Eternal Day options
Enable grab movement of vehicles and furniture across ramps to a different z-level
Grabs can cause you to suffocate, Portal Storm Effect to use this
Allow reloading guns with mixed ammo
Allow players to uncover electric wires in the walls to connect appliances
Snippets you've read have a LORE tab you can look them over
Allow Web Diver to rappel, add infrastructure for wall crawling
Give a chance of another try if game is unable to find a valid starting location.
Perspiration
Reworks mutagen to take time and use fully customizable EOCs.
Mutations now cause genetic damage
Limiting rigid armor, testing for it and raw skin
Aiming Down Sight Causes Sight To Focus
Tons of additional mouse and menu scrolling options
Move items along when riding the elevator
You can now peek down a ledge to check if it's safe before climbing down
Metaprogression through achievements
Allow mounting any reasonable gun on turret mount

> EMP blast renders all electronic items in the radius of the blast non-functional

Author: ```suggestion
EMP blast renders all electronic items in the radius of the blast non-functional
Extended byproduct groups functionality
Add bodygraph displaying wetness status
```

New mutation traits
Tutorial jsonify and rework
coins and banknotes overhauled
Expanded bronze recipes
Three new mutation categories: Rabbit, Frog, and Snail
Add wind turbine map special
Exodii trader and more ways to find the Exodii base
Portal storms, portal storm monsters, portal storm dungeon
The refugee center merchant has been remade into a new NPC named Smokes.
Appliances for all kinds of furniture including lamps, washing machines, arcade machines, tool machines.
Propane gas and tanks
Isolated Artisans Faction
Add new Bōjutsu Marital Art
Blacksmithing rework
New easter eggs, no I won't list them
Civilian Bugout Bags Filled With What You Expect
Hub01 expansion
Tacoma Ranch rework and Expansion
New starting missions for many professions both new and old
Aircraft Carrier and Nuclear Power Plant Globally unique locations
JSONized snippets for addictions and dreams
Catalytic Cracking for Kerosene production
And unfathomable amount of location updates
Nursing home and associated scenario, monsters and profession
Improved radio scanning
Sheet metal armor
Pride flags
Skulls
A plethora of mutable locations including farms and river caves
Meat Cocoons and Zombie Amalgations

> Even more monsters, items, foods, locations, and recipes

Author: ```suggestion
Even more monsters, items, foods, locations, and recipes
Bird nests can be found on roofs
```

Bind HOME and END keys by default and implement them for most menus
In butchery menu, make it clear when an item will be disassembled
Containers holding a stack of a single item will display its quantity
Added option to clear pocket settings
The item display now show minimum encumbrance as well as maximum
Add global auto-note settings
Change gender with @ on all char creation tabs
Show background traits on TRAITS window in character creation menu
Remove NEW! recipe flag on current item when moving up or down
Adds Medical Menu
Allowing converting terrain/furniture to appliances through interaction
add trait to hamper player's ability to judge creature's vision and intentions
Interrupt crafting when starving/parched
Allow customization of text input UI hotkeys using either ? or F1
Show properly-fitted clothing in the crafting screen
Progress update while heating food
Hides the old sidebars and replaces them with fancy json sidebars
Jsonified "Unexplored" OMT
Support fuzzy search with accented latin letters
Many new color themes
Possibility to turn distractions on and off
Show compatible guns in magazine descriptions
Show proficiencies trained by dissecting

> Mark overmap location if player drops favorited item

Author: ```suggestion
Mark overmap location if player drops favorited item
Ursine has its own faces now (no horizontal)
[ASCIITileset] Change Unknow terrain to use the unseen sprite
Sidebar vehicle stats are now hidden until relevant
Makes all appearance mutations visible in menus
```

[Innawood] Chemistry, electricity, and more!
Many new dinosaurs added to Dinomod
A mod to add subtitles to Rubik's dialogue in English.
Tameable Wildlife MOD
Dark Days of the Dead: Headshot requirements and deadly zombie bites are in!
Dinomod NPC Missions
New Mod Xedra Evolved with new magic classes, monsters, professions and CBMs plus Cyborg professions
Desert region revival
Add Megafauna Mod
[DinoMod] tyrannosaurus bio-operator
[DinoMod] Nanuqsaurus and burned rebuild
Aftershock: Add functional jet packs
Xedra Evolved: New NPCs to meet and rescue
[DinoMod] player mutations change monster faction behavior
[DinoMod] stegoceras
Magiclysm Adding new magic plants
[DinoMod] compsognathus, eoraptor, amargasaurus bio-operators
Magiclysm Quest & Lore patch to item distribution
[DinoMod] mi-go scout tower dino variant
The Backrooms mod
Vampire Virus in Xedra Evolved
Crazy Cataclysm: Adds Powerthirst and Rocket Cans
Xedra Evolved magic classes Eaters, Dreamers, Inventors and Dreamsmiths
[Magiclysm] Make Summoning Great Again!
Implementing more proper alchemy and some another stuff
Aftershock Space items and smartguns
Aftershock New CBM and class
Aftershock: New Monofilament Whip CBM

> Butchering candy monsters gives candy flesh

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
My Sweet Cataclysm: Butchering candy monsters gives candy flesh
```

> Use size flags for size changing mutations.
> Dinomod now has a rideable zombie T-Rex for all you Dresden fans
> New Dinomod evolutions
> Aftershock has some new robots and a new swarming monster AI behavior that can be used in all mods/mainline
> Magiclysm may have completed the attunement system or is significantly closer to completion
> Aftershock has new fauna monsters
> More atmospheric lore and details for Aftershock
> Dinomod has expanded it's dialogue options with mainline NPCs
> The DinoLab
> The Forge of Wonders now has three shops and stronger defenses on the vault
> The No Hope mod is available to greatly reduce the average player lifespan
> Dinomod specific achievements as well as Aftershock specific achievements
> Aftershock: Translocators for semi-convenient long range teleporting.
> Burned Zombie Dinos
> New gizmos and gadgets in Aftershock
> Aftershock: Stratoscomm Relay Station
> [Magiclysm] Adds new zombie animals
> Add mythos monsters to Mythos mod
> Dinomod Apex predators don't appear randomly day one
> Adds TropiCataclysm to the repository
> craftable holiday sweaters for dinos
> Hylian Adventurer Profession for Mythical Martial Arts
> Many south american animals added to Tropicataclysm
> Adds an innawood mod for wilderness survival.
> Aftershock Exoplanet: Glacial tunnels, a new low-risk area and the fauna that inhabits them
> TropiCataclysm Adds Termites and new content for Triffids
> Adds cast-bronze tools to Innawoods mod.
> [Innawood] Chemistry, electricity, and more!
> Many new dinosaurs added to Dinomod
> A mod to add subtitles to Rubik's dialogue in English.
> Tameable Wildlife MOD
> Dark Days of the Dead: Headshot requirements and deadly zombie bites are in!
> Dinomod NPC Missions
> New Mod Xedra Evolved with new magic classes, monsters, professions and CBMs plus Cyborg professions
> Desert region revival
> Add Megafauna Mod
> [DinoMod] tyrannosaurus bio-operator
> [DinoMod] Nanuqsaurus and burned rebuild
> Aftershock: Add functional jet packs
> Xedra Evolved: New NPCs to meet and rescue
> [DinoMod] player mutations change monster faction behavior
> [DinoMod] stegoceras
> Magiclysm Adding new magic plants
> [DinoMod] compsognathus, eoraptor, amargasaurus bio-operators
> Magiclysm Quest & Lore patch to item distribution
> [DinoMod] mi-go scout tower dino variant
> The Backrooms mod
> Vampire Virus in Xedra Evolved
> Crazy Cataclysm: Adds Powerthirst and Rocket Cans
> Xedra Evolved magic classes Eaters, Dreamers, Inventors and Dreamsmiths
> [Magiclysm] Make Summoning Great Again!
> Implementing more proper alchemy and some another stuff
> Aftershock Space items and smartguns
> Aftershock New CBM and class
> Aftershock: New Monofilament Whip CBM
> My Sweet Cataclysm: Butchering candy monsters gives candy flesh
> Add standard combat test mod
> Nested Crafting Categories
> Add cosmetic variants for mutations

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Aftershock
New robots and a new swarming monster AI behavior that can be used in all mods/mainline
New fauna monsters
More atmospheric lore and details
Achievements
Translocators for semi-convenient long range teleporting.
New gizmos and gadgets
Stratoscomm Relay Station
Add functional jet packs
Space items and smartguns
New CBM and class
New Monofilament Whip CBM
Aftershock Exoplanet: Glacial tunnels, a new low-risk area and the fauna that inhabits them

Dinomod
Rideable zombie T-Rex for all you Dresden fans
New evolutions
Expanded dialogue options with mainline NPCs
The DinoLab
Achievements
Burned zombie dinos
Apex predators don't appear randomly day one
Craftable holiday sweaters for dinos
41 new dinosaur species, more than doubled
NPC Missions
Tyrannosaurus, compsognathus, eoraptor, and amargasaurus bio-operators
Player mutations change monster faction behavior
Mi-go scout tower dino variant

Innawood
Mod for wilderness survival
Adds cast-bronze tools
Chemistry, electricity, and more!

Magiclysm
Completed the attunement system or significantly closer to completion
The Forge of Wonders now has three shops and stronger defenses on the vault
New zombie animals
Adding new magic plants
Quest & Lore patch to item distribution
Make Summoning Great Again!
Implementing more proper alchemy and some another stuff
Use size flags for size changing mutations.
Nested crafting categories

TropiCataclysm
Now available
Many south american animals
Termites and new content for Triffids

Xedra Evolved
New Mod with new magic classes, monsters, professions and CBMs plus Cyborg professions
New NPCs to meet and rescue
Vampire Virus
Magic classes Eaters, Dreamers, Inventors and Dreamsmiths

The Backrooms, replaces normal mapgen with endless rooms
Crazy Cataclysm: Adds Powerthirst and Rocket Cans
Dark Days of the Dead: Headshot requirements and deadly zombie bites are in!
Desert region revival, showcases regional_map_settings changes
Megafauna Mod: adds extinct megafauna of the late Pleistocene and early holocene
My Sweet Cataclysm: Butchering candy monsters gives candy flesh
Mythical Martial Arts: Hylian Adventurer Profession
Mythos Mod: Add mythos monsters
No Hope: Available to greatly reduce the average player lifespan
Standard combat test suite, a standard combat test mod
Tamable Wildlife for taming quiet/small wildlife
Translate Complex Dialogue, a mod to add subtitles to Rubik's dialogue in English.

```

I tried to reorganize with the big mods and then all the single line items, all alphabetized

Reviewer 2: All changelog entries are listed in chronological order from oldest to newest, so I don't think we should be changing these around.

You can now pry open metal doors with a halligan bar.
Adjusted how the hoarder morale penalty is calculated with a focus on small pockets and holsters
Weapon Categories now exist so martial arts can pull by weapon category instead of weapon id
Massive Martial Arts rebalance
Massive zombie spawn audits
Striking techniques and martial arts buffs affect all types of physical damage
Monster speed and attack speed audits
Many weapons and armor rebalanced
Stop letting players climb up via downspouts or ropes when all their arms are broken
Turret spawns nerfed heavily
Reduces wetness penalties (and bonuses), as wetness was previously one of the strongest factors affecting morale.
Cars now more likely to contain tire changing equipment
Tailoring Audit and rework
Sublimb rework of armor
Daily health vs lifestyle system
Artifacts apply passives in inventory instead of when wielded
Climate Control CBM (and equivalent effects) now works more consistently, doesn't completely shut down in extreme temperatures, and can stack
minimum of two zombies to receive suffocation
Banks deploy cop bots instead of TALON killbots when agitated
gas masks no longer make you immune to getting sick

> Replace most ASRGs with conventional fuel-powered generators

Author: ```suggestion
Replace most ASRGs with conventional fuel-powered generators
Adds assorted costumes to the objective of the Cosplay mission.
Use find_clear_path always for projectile trajectories, not just when it hits.
Makes using a spear on enemies through fences/bars normally at low levels instead of defaulting to bashing on bars/fence instead.
Add additional sources of patchwork cotton sheets from deconstruction
Mole Crickets and Molerats can now give tetanus with bites

```

Replaced all ATTACKMON entire with PUSH_MON
Workaround language from being unsettable in options menu
Disallow placing stepladder if a vehicle in tile

## Performance:
Improve lighting performance
Speed up rendering during autodrive
Avoid calculating weight & volume of containers when not needed
A few microoptimizations
Worked around for translating undisplayed debug messages causing major slowdown
Optimize TranslationManager performance and memory usage
Share tileset instances between map and overmap
Call `game::update_overmap_seen` only when it actually needs updating
Loading of gzipped world/maps/x.y.z/x.y.z.map and data/json files
Optimize shot_features and shot_features_with_choke test
Optimize item spawn list creation
Optimize null stream in DebugLog
Optimize overmap special placement with zero-copy transformation
Increase performance of item processing of contained items
Improve reveal wire handling and performance
Optimize map rendering
Speed up crafting menu tab loading
Improve appliance grid performance with many connections
Performance Improvement for item::can_contain
Binary json input for various performance wins
Misc vehicle/appliance performance improvements

> Fix Repair menu shows slow

Author: ```suggestion
Fix Repair menu shows slow
Code optimizations reported by static code analysis
Make `Character::best_item_with_quality` examine items non-recursively
```

Jsonize Pet Food
Support for mutable overmap specials
Jsonize monster speed description
Allow JSON-defined linear terrain and unhardcode anthills
In-house translation library implementation to support loading multiple MO files
Add dialog effects for taking control of npcs and conversations with monsters/items
Use dialog conditions for mutation and enchantment triggers
Dialog effect to affect nearby npcs
Add support for dynamic predecessor mapgen
Basic Appliance implementation
Partial Jsonization of Mood Indicators
So much work building the infrastructure for Effects on Condition thanks to Ramza13 for spearheading this project
Tons of PRs on creating mutable overmap specials, which allows procedural map generation using only json thanks to Jbytheway for leading the way on this
A bunch of terrain/furniture item interactions that were jsonized thanks in large part to Saicchi
Add dialog effects for transforming terrain and furniture. Add portal storm effect to transform grass.
Create talker_furniture, move refugee center computer into dialog system.
Improve pocket performance by removing some unnecessary pockets
Adds documentation for `place_monsters` JSON flag

> Adds ability to remove, fields, vehicles, items, and traps to update_mapgen

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adds ability to remove fields, vehicles, items, and traps to update_mapgen
```

overmap sprites generator
Add infrastructure for swappable weapons in bionics
Automatic spell check on pull requests
Place monster corpses in json mapgen.
Allow limiting map extras by zlevel
Add sound support for clear, cloudy and sunny weather
Enhance martial art techniques, allow limbs to define technique lists and unarmed damage boni
Add mapgen ability to set variables or remove traps in lines/squares.
Combine wheat-free and wheat-full flours into a single recipe requirement
Allow gendered descriptions for professions outside of translations
Report JSON entries with the same id from the same mod

> Change itemgroups to default to overwrite, instead of extension

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Change itemgroups to default to overwrite, instead of extend.
```

Vehicle parts can now use looks_like from furniture, items, etc
Dissection tables separate from harvest tables, and relevant monsters dissect to samples
Added external options to override status and fuel for spawned vehicles
Include a Soundpack by default
Trap-specific jsonified trigger messages
Support transparency of pockets and show contents of transparent pockets from a distance
Add the possibility to change color and symbol of an item with a variant
Added external option with setting frequency of displaying music descriptions in sidebar
added basic utilities for mouse drag-and-drop support to input _manager
Support achievements based around overmap specials
Allow setting terminal cursor for screen readers and IME preview using ui_adaptor
Tons of documentation work
Set age for monster corpses in json mapgen

> Move the Find Lost Dog mission to JSON

Author: ```suggestion
Move the Find Lost Dog mission to JSON
Vehicle energy_consumption in units::power
item power_draw in units::power
Convert the 'Recover Priests Diary' mission to JSON
Move the 'Kill Horde Master' mission to JSON formatting
Fixed situation where 'overflow on combine' test could randomly fail
Consolidate functions for character's best item with given quality
Move the Retrieve Deposit Box mission to JSON format
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Full list of new entries (Infrastructure):

```
Vehicle energy_consumption in units::power
item power_draw in units::power
Convert the 'Recover Priests Diary' mission to JSON
Move the 'Kill Horde Master' mission to JSON formatting
Fixed situation where 'overflow on combine' test could randomly fail
Consolidate functions for character's best item with given quality
Move the Retrieve Deposit Box mission to JSON format
```

Link to libncursesw in CMake
Removed small bashism (path expansion) from Makefile.
Make use of gold linker optional for LTO builds
Allow build and run in repo folder in CMake
Add missing header (vector) to fix build error on Linux
Fix compile errors on LLVM/Clang 13
Updated documentation to be in line with moving MXE gcc to version 11 + libbacktrace
More granular and parallelized translations compiling
Upgrade MXE cross-compiler to GCC 11
MXE instructions for gcc version 9.3.0
Enable backtrace in MinGW release
Windows Github CI for Cataclysm and ObjectCreator
Instantiate non const variants of templated creature_tracker methods
Add src/third-party to Android build header search path
Set directories on macOS in CMake build script
Set RELEASE variable in root CMake script based on CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE, to generate install targets
Avoid use of reserved word PREFIX in CMake build script
Install core and help directories in CMake build script
Recursively search and bundle Mac dependencies
Bundle library dependencies in macOS release workflow
COMPILING.md update for FreeBSD
freedesktop metadata files are updated and installed when appropriate
Build linux releases on ubuntu-18.04

> 

Reviewer 2: Full list of new entries (Build):

```
Update flatpak manifest
Fix CMake mixed signature error and outdated localization code
```

# 0.G (Gernsback or Gaiman are my suggestions/guess)

## Highlights
Effect on condition brings a scripting pseudo language to Cataclysm.  Some of its key uses in 0.G have been the introduction of portal storms, NPC faction development over time and random encounters in already explored maps.
The introduction of hobbies has added a new tab to character creation that allows the player to select one or more hobbies/backgrounds that flesh out what your character was doing prior to the Cataclysm in skills and traits.
JSONized sidebar allows almost total control of what your sidebar looks like and what information it displays is up to you!

> Skill rust has been turned into a net gain for the player as any rusted xp now turns into an xp multiplier that helps your character learn faster.  As a result it now defaults to on.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The skill system has been greatly expanded with many new proficiencies and many new ways to learn them, as well as the groundwork for practice-based skill improvement, including a skill rust system that doesn't suck because it caps effective skill lost and regenerates faster than regular skill gain.
```

Aftershock has new fauna monsters
More atmospheric lore and details for Aftershock
Dinomod has expanded it's dialogue options with mainline NPCs
The DinoLab
The Forge of Wonders now has three shops and stronger defenses on the vault
The No Hope mod is available to greatly reduce the average player lifespan
Dinomod specific achievements as well as Aftershock specific achievements
Aftershock: Translocators for semi-convenient long range teleporting.
Burned Zombie Dinos
New gizmos and gadgets in Aftershock
Aftershock: Stratoscomm Relay Station
[Magiclysm] Adds new zombie animals
Add mythos monsters to Mythos mod
Dinomod Apex predators don't appear randomly day one
Adds TropiCataclysm to the repository
craftable holiday sweaters for dinos
Hylian Adventurer Profession for Mythical Martial Arts
Many south american animals added to Tropicataclysm
Adds an innawood mod for wilderness survival.
Aftershock Exoplanet: Glacial tunnels, a new low-risk area and the fauna that inhabits them
TropiCataclysm Adds Termites and new content for Triffids
Adds cast-bronze tools to Innawoods mod.
[Innawood] Chemistry, electricity, and more!

> Many new dinosaurs added to Dinomod

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
41 new dinosaurs added to Dinomod
```
